---

layout: post
title: Rejoice
date: 2013-01-22 22:57:40

author:
  bio: |
    Jelmer Borst is a student at the Technical University of Delft as well as a web enthusiast and responsive web design advocate. He is thrilled by the possibilities and power held by the web in combination with its craftsmen.
  image: japborst.jpg
  name: Jelmer Borst
  url: japborst.net
  twitter: japborst

excerpt: |
  [Jelmer Borst](http://www.japborst.net/) rejoices in his love for The Web and travelling.
categories: blog
---

The good thing about being young, is the fact that you are amazed by literally *everything* around you. The sad part is though, that whilst growing up, awesome phenomena in life eventually start to bore you. Nevertheless, there are things that you are never able to grasp in its fullest and maintain to fascinate you. These are either extremely complex systems, or ever and/or fast evolving ones.

Oh yes, many subjects have indeed bored me; no doubt about that. But as I am diving deeper into the abundance of great minds that live amongst the web community, I find myself spotting even more features, techniques and philosophies to be - too - intrigued about. It has inspired me to freelance, inspired me to write about it, to share my knowledge with the world, to discuss and help others in the same web environment. In the rather egocentric world we are in, right now, a community such as the web is exceptional.

Whilst I am studying to be an aerospace engineer, it has caused me to doubt. No aeroplane or space-shuttle has ever inspired me in such a way like the web did. To see a project come to life; the process of this technological [tabula rasa](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tabula_rasa), shaping it with our bare hands and setting it free when finished; to then revisit it and make minor changes. It is the collaboration, the interaction between people - whether colleague(s), friends or clients - and their motivation, joy and enthusiasm that cause me to rejoice.

However, the last thing on your mind is the thought of being 'stuck', which eventually leads to routines in your work. In other words, the inspirational flow needs to keep flowing. I personally believe everyone has their own way of recharging their energy. In my case that'd be travelling. During summer, I take about 4-6 weeks of wandering - preferably entirely lost - and try to grasp the unbelievable architecture, nature and culture around me. In my opinion, such moments of inner rest - be it adventures or anything else - are the *vital* ingredients of a gratifying life.